Adding AWS Cloud Cost Management Instructions for MSP Partners (#33259)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/partners/cloud_cost_management/aws.md

cascade:
    algolia:
      subcategory: 'Cloud Cost Management'
      tags: ['cloud cost', 'cloud integrations', 'cloud cost management', 'cloud cost aws']

---
## Overview

This guide explains how AWS Managed Service Providers (MSPs) configure AWS Billing Conductor and generate pro forma Cost and Usage Reports (CURs) so that a customer's member account can be connected to Datadog CCM without exposing the MSP's management account.

The steps on this page are divided between what **you (the MSP partner)** configure and what **your customer** configures in their member account.

For general (non-MSP) CCM setup instructions, see the [Datadog CCM AWS setup guide][1].

## About AWS Billing Conductor
[AWS Billing Conductor][2] is a custom billing service for AWS Marketplace Channel Partners and organizations that have chargeback requirements.
Billing Conductor enables customers to create a second, pro forma version of their costs to share with their customers or account owners.
Billing rates, credits and fees, and overhead costs can be customized at your discretion. You can also select which accounts to include in the CUR.

<div class="alert alert-warning">

> - Pro forma Cost and Usage Reports do not include discounts and taxes, which makes it difficult to compare costs in Datadog to AWS Cost Explorer.<br>

Reviewer: can we make this warning more actionable? i'm not sure what the user should do with this information.

Author: There isn’t much the user can do to make the costs match exactly—this is a current limitation. The intent of this section is to transparently communicate the current state and set the right expectations. I revised the wording to make that clearer and more actionable.

2. To deploy the stack, follow the AWS documentation: [Create a stack from the CloudFormation][7]. When creating the stack, choose: **With new resources (standard)**.

### Step 3 - Configure the Cost and Usage Report settings in AWS

Enter the following information during deployment:
- **Bucket Name**: S3 bucket where CUR files are stored  
- **Bucket Region**: AWS region of that bucket (for example, `us-east-1`)  
- **Export Path Prefix**: S3 path prefix for CUR files  
- **Export Name**: Name of the Cost and Usage Report  

These values define where AWS writes the CUR and where Datadog reads it.

### Step 4 - Enter the member account's CUR parameters in Datadog

1. After deploying the CloudFormation stack, navigate to **Datadog → Cloud Cost → Settings → [Accounts][8]**.

   {{< img src="partners/cloud_cost/select_aws_account_ccm.png" alt="Select AWS Account for CCM" style="width:100%;" >}}

2. Select the member account and enter the following fields using the exact values from **Step 3**:
- Bucket Name  
- Bucket Region  
- Export Path Prefix  
- Export Name  

3. Skip the **Create CloudFormation stack step**

The stack was already deployed in **Step 3**

> 4. Click **Activate now**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click **Activate now** to activate CCM for the member account.
```

> Activate CCM for the member account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

{{< img src="partners/cloud_cost/configure_aws_ccm.png" alt="Configure AWS Cloud Cost Management" style="width:100%;" >}}

> If everything is configured correctly, the account status will update as shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After configuration is complete, the account status updates as shown below.
```

---
title: AWS Cloud Cost for MSP Partners
further_reading:
  - link: "/cloud_cost_management/aws/"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Cloud Cost Management for AWS"
  - link: "/monitors/types/cloud_cost/"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Create a Cloud Cost monitor"
  - link: "/cloud_cost_management/tags/"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Learn about Tags in Cloud Cost Management"
  - link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/control-your-cloud-spend-with-datadog-cloud-cost-management/"
    tag: "Blog"
    text: "Gain visibility and control of your cloud spend with Datadog Cloud Cost Management"
  - link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/cloud-cost-management-container-support/"
    tag: "Blog"
    text: "Understand your Kubernetes and ECS spend with Datadog Cloud Cost Management"
  - link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/google-cloud-cost-management/"
    tag: "Blog"

>     text: "Empower engineers to take ownership of Google Cloud costs with Datadog"

Reviewer: is this relevant?

  - link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/total-cost-of-service-ownership-ccm/"
    tag: "Blog"
    text: "Quickly and comprehensively analyze the cloud and SaaS costs behind your services"
    text: "Learn about Tags in Cloud Cost Management"
  - link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/cloud-costs-study-learnings/"
    tag: "Blog"
    text: "Key learnings from the State of Cloud Costs study"
  - link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/unit-economics-ccm/"
    tag: "Blog"
    text: "Monitor unit economics with Datadog Cloud Cost Management"
  - link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/finops-at-datadog/"
    tag: "Blog"
    text: "How we've created a successful FinOps practice at Datadog"
  - link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/cloud-cost-management-saved-millions/"
    tag: "Blog"
    text: "How we saved $1.5 million per year with Cloud Cost Management"

>   - link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/cloud-cost-management-oci/"

Reviewer: is this relevant?

    tag: "Blog"
    text: "Manage and optimize your OCI costs with Datadog Cloud Cost Management"
cascade:
    algolia:
      subcategory: 'Cloud Cost Management'
      tags: ['cloud cost', 'cloud integrations', 'cloud cost management', 'cloud cost aws']

---
## Overview

> This guide explains how AWS Managed Service Providers (MSPs) configure AWS Billing Conductor and generate Pro Forma Cost and Usage Reports (CURs) so that a customer’s Member Account can be connected to Datadog CCM without exposing the MSP’s Management Account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide explains how AWS Managed Service Providers (MSPs) configure AWS Billing Conductor and generate Pro Forma Cost and Usage Reports (CURs) so that a customer's Member Account can be connected to Datadog CCM without exposing the MSP's Management Account.
```

> The steps in this document describe what **the MSP partner** configures and what **the customer (Member Account owner)** must configure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The steps on this page are divided between what **you (the MSP partner)** configure and what **your customer** configures in their Member Account.
```

For general (non-MSP) CCM setup instructions, see the [Datadog CCM AWS setup guide][1].

> ## Billing conductor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## About AWS Billing Conductor
```

[AWS Billing Conductor][11] is a custom billing service for AWS Marketplace Channel Partners and organizations that have chargeback requirements.
Billing Conductor enables customers to create a second, pro forma version of their costs to share with their customers or account owners.
Billing rates, credits and fees, and overhead costs can be customized at your discretion. You can also select which accounts to include in the CUR.

> **Important limitations**: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-warning">
```

- Pro forma Cost and Usage Reports do not include discounts and taxes, which makes it difficult to compare costs in Datadog to AWS Cost Explorer.
- Adding accounts to a billing group impacts how Reservations and Savings Plans are shared across AWS accounts.

To create a billing conductor CUR, follow the [AWS Cost and Usage Reports user guide][12]. Ensure the CUR meets [Datadog's requirements][2].  

## Prerequisites

> As an MSP partner, verify the following before starting:

Reviewer: it feels like the headers here are too big for a short checklist. there also needs to be more parallelism between the section headers. i would try something like this:

**MSP access**: Access to the Management Account to configure Billing Conductor (Pricing Rules, Pricing Plans, Billing Groups).

**Customer permissions**: The customer must have permission to:
- deploy CloudFormation stacks
- create and manage Cost and Usage Reports (CURs)
- grant Datadog access to the S3 bucket containing the CUR

**Datadog integration**: The AWS integration must be installed for the Member Account in Datadog. For more information, see the [AWS integration setup instructions][5].

### Access requirements
- Access to the **Management Account** to configure Billing Conductor (Pricing Rules, Pricing Plans, Billing Groups).  

### Permissions required in the **customer’s Member Account**

> The customer must have:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The customer must have permission to:
```

- Permission to deploy CloudFormation stacks
- Permission to create and manage Cost and Usage Reports (CURs)
- Permission to grant Datadog access to the S3 bucket containing the CUR

### Datadog requirement
- The AWS integration must be installed for the Member Account in Datadog.  
  See the official documentation: [AWS integration setup][3].

## Configure AWS Billing Conductor

> These steps **must be completed in the MSP’s Management Account**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The steps below **must be completed in the MSP’s Management Account**.
```

### Create a Pricing Rule

Billing Conductor computes Pro Forma costs by adjusting **AWS public on‑demand rates** using a **Discount** or **Markup**.

> You must explicitly choose:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must explicitly choose between these options:
```

- Discount: applies a percentage discount to public on-demand  
- Markup: applies a percentage increase to public on-demand  

> **Important behavior**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-info">
Entering 0% (whether Discount or Markup) results in public on-demand pricing. The allowed range is 0-100%.
</div>
```

- Entering 0% (whether Discount or Markup) results in _public on‑demand pricing_. 

> - Allowed range is 0–100%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> **Examples**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example:

| Type | Calculation |
|------|-------------|
| Discount (20%) | public on-demand × 0.8 |
| Markup (30%) | public on-demand × 1.3 |
```

- Discount (20%): public on‑demand × 0.8  
- Markup (30%): public on‑demand × 1.3  

### Create a Pricing Plan

Create a Pricing Plan and attach the Pricing Rule created in the previous step.  
A Pricing Plan can contain **only one** global Discount or Markup rule.

> ### Create a Billing Group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 3 - Create a Billing Group
```

Create a Billing Group and assign **one customer’s Member Account** as the **Primary** account.
You can add one or more Member Accounts to the Billing Group, but only the Primary Member Account generates the Pro Forma CUR that Datadog ingests.

> ### Confirm customer-side requirements (Member Account)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 4 - Confirm customer-side requirements
```

> If the customer manages their Member Account independently, confirm they understand that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the customer manages their Member Account independently, confirm they understand that they must:
```

- They must deploy the CloudFormation template.  

> - They must create the CUR in their account.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- create the CUR in their account
```

- They must grant Datadog access to the CUR bucket.

## Configure Datadog Cloud Cost Management

These steps must be completed in the **customer’s Member Account** and must be performed by the customer.

### Download the Datadog CCM CloudFormation template

Pro Forma CURs do not support the `SPLIT_COST_ALLOCATION_DATA` option.
Because of this limitation, the customer must modify the template before deployment:

> 1. Download the Datadog CCM CloudFormation template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Download the [Datadog CCM CloudFormation template][14].
```

2. Remove the `SPLIT_COST_ALLOCATION_DATA` field from the template.
3. Save the modified template to use in the next step.

Use the Datadog-provided CloudFormation template:

> https://datadog-cloudformation-template.s3.amazonaws.com/aws_cloud_cost/v0.0.1/main.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Deploy the CloudFormation stack

Use the template above and deploy a stack in the customer’s Member Account.

> To deploy the stack, follow the AWS documentation: [Create a stack from the CloudFormation][13].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. To deploy the stack, follow the AWS documentation: [Create a stack from the CloudFormation][13]. When creating the stack, choose: **With new resources (standard)**.
```

When creating the stack, choose: **With new resources (standard)**.

#### Configure the Cost and Usage Report settings

Enter the following information during deployment:
- **Bucket Name**: S3 bucket where CUR files are stored  
- **Bucket Region**: AWS region of that bucket (for example, `us-east-1`)  
- **Export Path Prefix**: S3 path prefix for CUR files  
- **Export Name**: Name of the Cost and Usage Report  

These values define where AWS writes the CUR and where Datadog reads it.

> ### Enter the Member Account’s CUR parameters in Datadog

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Enter the Member Account's CUR parameters in Datadog
```

After deploying the CloudFormation stack, go to:

> **Datadog → Cloud Cost → Settings → [Accounts][4]**  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> {{< img src="partners/cloud_cost/select_aws_account_ccm.png" alt="Select AWS Account for CCM" style="width:100%;" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   {{< img src="partners/cloud_cost/select_aws_account_ccm.png" alt="Select AWS Account for CCM" style="width:100%;" >}}
```

Select the Member Account and enter the following fields using the exact values from **Deploy the CloudFormation stack**:
- Bucket Name  
- Bucket Region  
- Export Path Prefix  
- Export Name  

> ### Skip “Create CloudFormation stack”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Skip automatic stack creation
```

Since the CloudFormation stack was already deployed, skip Datadog’s automatic CloudFormation deployment option.

{{< img src="partners/cloud_cost/configure_aws_ccm.png" alt="Configure AWS Cloud Cost Management" style="width:100%;" >}}

### Click **Activate now**

Activate CCM for the Member Account.

{{< img src="partners/cloud_cost/complete_aws_ccm.png" alt="Complete AWS Cloud Cost Management" style="width:100%;" >}}

## Validation

> 

Reviewer: missing a lot of context here. how about something like this:

After activation, verify that cost data is flowing into Datadog:

1. Go to [**Cloud Cost** > **Cost Explorer**][9] in Datadog.
2. Filter by the customer's member account.
3. Confirm that cost data appears for the expected time range.

**Note:** It may take 48-72 hours after a CUR is generated for data to appear. CURs use hourly granularity, so AWS delivery timing and Datadog processing may not align perfectly in real time.

Data latency
It may take 48–72 hours after a Cost and Usage Report (CUR) is generated for all available data to appear in Datadog.

Granularity
CURs use hourly time granularity. Because of this, AWS CUR delivery timing and Datadog CCM processing may not align perfectly in real time.

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /cloud_cost_management/setup/aws/  
[2]: /cloud_cost_management/setup/aws/?tab=manual#prerequisite-generate-a-cost-and-usage-report

> [3]: /getting_started/integrations/aws/#setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

[4]: https://app.datadoghq.com/cost/settings/accounts
[11]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/billingconductor/latest/userguide/what-is-billingconductor.html

> [12]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cur/latest/userguide/cur-data-view.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> [13]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/cfn-console-create-stack.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[13]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/cfn-console-create-stack.html
[14]: https://datadog-cloudformation-template.s3.amazonaws.com/aws_cloud_cost/v0.0.1/main.yaml
```
